Now that we are all set up where the path server on A-type us we're going to spend a couple of videos
seeing how we can work with pass objects to save restore and search objects on our past server.
So I'm going to start by just deleting this code which is really only there to make sure your pulse
installation is working correctly and we're going to be writing our code live in main activity.
So let's say we're making a game and we want to save the user score on pass to share it between devices
or to display it on some kind of leader board.
Well what we did is we create a parser objects.
This time we might call it school and this is going to be a new parse object and then we give it a class
name and because it is a class name starts with a capital letter and we can of course call it whatever
we like but something like school would make sense.
So just jumping back over to our data browser at the moment our class that we've created is called example
object.
And we've also got user session as classes as well.
So we don't need to define the score on parse in any way.
If it's not already that then pass will set it up for us.
So then we might want a couple of bits of data in this school object.
So we use school put to do that.
And then you can say we've got string value and object value so the string is the name of the variable
that we want to save.
So for example we might want to use an ATM and then I use an I might be wrong.
And that would then save a variable called name with a value of robbe as a new object within the score.
Clauss
Similarly we might want to put the score itself or maybe I'm doing pretty well at this game and I've
got a score of 86 and that will automatically create it as a certain type so this will of course be
a string and this will be an integer.
And then we've got a number of ways of saving this object.
If I start typing save you can see we've got two main options that we got save in background which is
just the standard safe.
And then we've got save eventually which works a little bit differently and it will save when we have
an opportunity to save.
So maybe the use is off line.
If that's the case then save in background work but eventually we'll remember and then save as soon
as possible.
Normally we're going to one save in background because we're going to want to save right there and then
eventually can be useful as well.
And then notice we've also got callback options so we can just use a standard saving background.
And if we run that that will attempt to save it but it doesn't give us any idea as to whether that's
been successful.
So almost always I think it's a good idea unless you really don't care whether it's been successful
or not.
To use the callback option and then to add a callback we just create a new safe callback that we go.
And that will give us a done method which would be called when the save is done either successfully
or not.
And then the easiest way to check if it's been successful is look for an error or an exception.
And if there isn't one i.e. if he is no
then we can log
something like save in background as our tag and successful as our message
and of course if that's not the case
then we can log save in
background
failed and if we want see we could add the error which we might use we don't to string or something
like that.
So let's just quickly see that in action.
Hopefully that's fairly clear.
We're setting up a parcel object called score which is of a class score.
We're adding a user name and a score to it and then we're saving in the background with a callback to
check if it's been successful or not if it has we're LOEG successful.
If not we'll log failed.
Let's take a look and there we go.
Looks promising so then it can always go over to our data browser.
And refresh.
And we should see our new school class appearing that without one object within it and there it is as
our school use Gruben school 86 excellent.
So now we know and understand hopefully how to save objects How about restoring them so if we want to
get a value from Passover.
So let's see how to do that or just start by commenting out the save code so that we don't end up saving
that multiple times.
And then to bring back data from APA 7 we use a pass query
and we're running a Pasquarelli on a pass object.
We'll call the query query.
And this is going to be a past query.
Don't get query and we're going to put in the class that we want to query and that's scole
and then we use query to get in background and we'll use the callback version and you can see we need
to provide an object ID.
Now the object ID can be found here.
Every object on pass is automatically given an object ID.
So I'm just going to copy that.
As my object id and will need I get callback.
And as usual we do a quick check to see if he is no
then we should be able to use our object here.
We might even want to check for objects not being null.
Then we could log
object value and then say I want to get the user name.
That's a string.
So I'm going to use object don't get string and the string I want to get is use in this variable here
which I know is a string.
Similarly if I want to get
the score
I can do it in much the same way.
Object gets and int and B that I want to get is a school.
I don't need to convert that C string to look at it not to string
like that that every.
So that's how we get objects back from pass.
Let's just have a look and make sure that that gives us the values that we're expecting So we should
get a user name and a score of 86 and there we go.
Rob does our 86.
We can also update our values here.
So if you want to update a value that exists already.
So let's say I've had a nice long session on this game and I've gone from a score of 86 to a score of
140.
Then I just take my object and update the valley.
So I'm going to change the score to 200 and then I can use object dot sight and background.
And this time I won't have a callback so that I really need to check.
I'm pretty sure it's going to work and I'll refresh the data browser when it's gone anyway.
Notice that the object is to go get in.
School will also be updated because we're updating the object locally on the device within our app.
And then we're saving it on our server using the save in background command so we don't need to get
it again for it to be already updated in our app.
One thing you might have noticed is we can't use the instant restart unfortunately because of the complexity
of the app that we're working with now.
But it's a shame but a small price to pay I think for all the convenience.
So there we go we've got a score of 200 here.
If I go back over to our data browser and refresh.
Should give me the new score of 200.
Fabulous.
All right.
Time for a quick challenge.
I'm going to come out
all of this and for this challenge I want you to just practice what we've just learned by creating a
tweaked class containing a user name and a tweet and the user name and that we can be whatever you like
tweet can be just hey there was something simple like that and then say that on pass and then
then
query it and update the tweet contents.
So we're assuming that someone wants to edit the tweet that they've already saved and then we're updating
the content to the new content whatever you want that to be.
So it's just an opportunity to practice what we've had.
Try and do it without going back and looking over your earlier work if you can.
But if you do need to go back for hints then that's fine.
All right.
Best of luck.
Go for it.
All right.
Here we are.
So I'm going to create a past object which I'll call tweet which is going to be a new object with a
class name of tweet with a capital T.
And then we're going to set up
a username which this time will be Tommy
and
I tweet
which I'll just have as you then and then will you save him background's
with a new save Colback and a quick check to see if
there's no error.
Well look tweet successful I think there is an error log.
Tweet fettled.
All right let's give it a go.
One thing to note on the past dashboard is if you just use the refresh button here that only refreshes
the score class and indeed it only refreshes the values.
So if you've added an extra column and you refresh that won't be reflected.
So if you want to look for a whole new class or for a whole new column within a class then you need
to refresh the whole page just before I do that I'll have a look at the locks and hopefully I should
see tweet successful.
And there it is.
So all is looking promising.
Let's jump back over and do a proper full page refresh.
And now you can see my tweet classes there.
Excellent.
With the tweet and the username and
I'm going to copy the object id and now I'm going to write my courage to bring that tweet back and update
its value.
So I will create a pass query and this is a query on I-PASS object again I'll call it query and this
is going to be a pass query to get query on the tweet to class
and then we use query to get in background and then we'll paste in the object id and will have a new
get callback.
And in fact or just copy and paste this time.
So we'll do a double check for now and object.
Is not null and say if this is the case.
Not only do I want to log that is successful but I also want to update the content say or use object
dots put and then I want to update the tweet variable.
This bit here t by
and then of course save in background and leave out the callback this time.
And let's check the logs so Twitter has been successful with looking good.
Let's have a quick refresh here and we should see now that the tweet has been updated to by wonderful.
So now hopefully you get the basic idea of saving and updating objects.
One thing that you might be thinking is how on earth will we know this ID of our average object.
Well the answer is most of the time we don't.
So we need to know how to query objects for example to find all the tweets by a certain username and
that is what we'll see have to be in the next video.